The main problem with the line of battle was that when the fleets are of similar size, 
naval actions using it were generally indecisive. 
The line was also easily countered by the gunnery doctrine where material damage at long range is the goal. 
The French in particular were adept at gunnery and would generally take the leeward position to enable their 
fleet to retire downwind while continuing to fire chain-shot at long range to bring down masts. 
Eventually so many vessels in a line would be damaged that they would be forced to retire for 
repairs while the French took few casualties and very little damage themselves. British Permanent 
Fighting Instructions were so inflexible in regards to the use of the line that a British fleet had 
never won a single tactical victory against a fleet of comparable strength in the century before the 
Battle of the Saintes in 1782[9] when Admiral George Rodney disobeyed the Instructions to win decisively.
For a period in the late 19th century, naval tactics became chaotic as ironclad warships were introduced. 
One school of thought held that ironclads were effectively invulnerable to gunfire, 
so ramming became a popular method of attack, such as at the Battle of Lissa and the Battle of the Yalu River. 
Another held that naval battles would only be decided by an assault on an enemy fleet in port. 
Ships built according to these doctrines tended to mount a handful of guns which could fire ahead or all-round, 
rather than broadside. The fleets of these periods tended to use the line of battle less.
However, as ramming fell out of fashion, the logic of the line of battle returned; 
used in the Battle of Tsushima of 1905, the Battle of Jutland in 1916 and finally in the Battle of Surigao Strait in 1944.
During World War II the development of aircraft carriers meant that gun engagements were no longer decisive. 
This meant there was no rationale for using a line-of-battle formation. In modern naval warfare, 
a battlegroup generally deploys with the highest-value units in the centre, accompanied closely by anti-aircraft escorts, 
with a number of anti-submarine escorts surrounding the formation at a distance of tens of miles.
Beginning with the use of melee and missile weapons such as clubs and spears, 
the kinetic or firepower function of tactics has developed along with technological advances 
so that the emphasis has shifted over time from the close-range melee and missile weapons to 
longer-range projectile weapons. Kinetic effects were generally delivered by the sword, spear, 
javelin and bow until the introduction of artillery by the Romans. Until the mid 19th century, 
the value of infantry-delivered missile firepower was not high, meaning that the result of a given 
battle was rarely decided by infantry firepower alone, often relying on artillery to deliver significant 
kinetic effects. The development of disciplined volley fire, delivered at close range, 
began to improve the hitting power of infantry, and compensated in part for the limited range, 
poor accuracy and low rate of fire of early muskets. Advances in technology, 
particularly the introduction of the rifled musket, used in the Crimean War and American Civil War, 
meant flatter trajectories and improved accuracy at greater ranges, along with higher casualties. 
The resulting increase in defensive firepower meant infantry attacks without artillery support became 
increasingly difficult. Firepower also became crucial to fixing an enemy in place