World War I had radically altered the political European map, 
with the defeat of the Central Powers—including Austria-Hungary, 
Germany, Bulgaria and the Ottoman Empire—and the 1917 Bolshevik seizure of power in Russia,
 which eventually led to the founding of the Soviet Union. Meanwhile, the victorious Allies of World War I, 
 such as France, Belgium, Italy, Romania and Greece, gained territory, 
 and new nation-states were created out of the collapse of Austria-Hungary and the Ottoman and Russian Empires.
The Kuomintang (KMT) party in China launched a unification campaign against regional 
warlords and nominally unified China in the mid-1920s, 
but was soon embroiled in a civil war against its former Chinese Communist Party allies and new regional warlords. 
In 1931, an increasingly militaristic Empire of Japan, 
which had long sought influence in China[30] as the first step of what its government saw as the country's right to rule Asia, 
used the Mukden Incident as a pretext to launch an invasion of Manchuria and establish the puppet state of Manchukuo.[31]
Too weak to resist Japan, 
China appealed to the League of Nations for help. 
Japan withdrew from the League of Nations after being condemned for its incursion into Manchuria. 
The two nations then fought several battles, in Shanghai, Rehe and Hebei, 
until the Tanggu Truce was signed in 1933. Thereafter, 
Chinese volunteer forces continued the resistance to Japanese aggression in Manchuria, 
and Chahar and Suiyuan.[32] After the 1936 Xi'an Incident, the Kuomintang and communist 
forces agreed on a ceasefire to present a united front to oppose Japan.[33]
German successes in Europe encouraged Japan to increase pressure on European governments in Southeast Asia. 
The Dutch government agreed to provide Japan some oil supplies from the Dutch East Indies, 
but negotiations for additional access to their resources ended in failure in June 1941.
In July 1941 Japan sent troops to southern Indochina, 
thus threatening British and Dutch possessions in the Far East. 
The United States, 
United Kingdom and other Western governments reacted to this move with a freeze on Japanese assets and a total oil embargo.
At the same time, Japan was planning an invasion of the Soviet Far East, 
intending to capitalise off the German invasion in the west, but abandoned the operation after the sanctions.