In the early 20th century, 
some nations expressed their desire to extend national claims: to include mineral resources, 
to protect fish stocks, and to provide the means to enforce pollution controls. 
(The League of Nations called a 1930 conference at The Hague, but no agreements resulted.)
Using the customary international law principle of a nation's right to protect its natural resources, 
President Harry S. Truman in 1945 extended United States control to all the natural resources of its continental shelf. 
Other nations were quick to follow suit. Between 1946 and 1950, Chile, 
Peru, and Ecuador extended their rights to a distance of 200 nautical miles (370 km) 
to cover their Humboldt Current fishing grounds. Other nations extended their territorial seas to 12 nautical miles (22 km).
By 1967, only 25 nations still used the old 3-mile (4.8 km) limit,
while 66 nations had set a 12-nautical-mile (22 km) territorial limit and eight had set a 200-nautical-mile (370 km) limit.
[citation needed] As of 28 May 2008, only two countries still use the 3-mile (4.8 km) limit: Jordan and Palau.
That limit is also used in certain Australian islands, an area of Belize, some Japanese straits, 
certain areas of Papua New Guinea, and a few British Overseas Territories, such as Anguilla.
Covers all water and waterways on the landward side of the baseline. 
The coastal state is free to set laws, regulate use, and use any resource. 
Foreign vessels have no right of passage within internal waters. 
A vessel in the high seas assumes jurisdiction under the internal laws of its flag State. 
Pursuit of a ship by the Coastal State may only take place in the internal 
waters and is required to end when reaching the contiguous zone.
Territorial waters
Out to 12 nautical miles (22 kilometres; 14 miles) from the baseline, 
the coastal state is free to set laws, regulate use, and use any resource. 
Vessels were given the right of innocent passage through any territorial waters, 
with strategic straits allowing the passage of military craft as transit passage, 
in that naval vessels are allowed to maintain postures that would be illegal in territorial waters. 
"Innocent passage" is defined by the convention as passing through waters in an expeditious and continuous manner, 
which is not "prejudicial to the peace, good order or the security" of the coastal state. Fishing, 
polluting, weapons practice, and spying are not "innocent", 
and submarines and other underwater vehicles are required to navigate on the surface and to show their flag.
Nations can also temporarily suspend innocent passage in specific areas of their territorial seas, 
if doing so is essential for the protection of their security.
Archipelagic waters
The convention set the definition of Archipelagic States in Part IV, 
which also defines how the state can draw its territorial borders. 
A baseline is drawn between the outermost points of the outermost islands, 
subject to these points being sufficiently close to one another. 
All waters inside this baseline are designated Archipelagic Waters. 
The state has sovereignty over these waters (like internal waters), 
but subject to existing rights including traditional fishing rights of immediately adjacent states.
Foreign vessels have right of innocent passage through archipelagic waters (like 
